# day-2 / Getting Started
before reading, i recommend you to switch to a lighter appearance, since it will make reading this easier.

1. Create an AWS Account and then sign-in.
2. Go ahead and search IAM (aka Identity and Access Management) then click on it.
3. Add MFA.
4. Create an Account Alias.
5. Go under *Access management* on the sidebar and go to *Users* then *Create user*.



## Creating a User

**Step 1:**

- Enter in your name and check the box *Provide user access to the AWS Management Console*.
- Choose *I want to create an IAM user* for *User type* since you want to have *Programmatic access*.
- You can either pick *Autogenerated pasword* or *Custom password* for the *Console password* section. After that, go ahead click *Next*. 
- You can also pick *Users must create a new password at next sign in*.

**Step 2:**

- Go ahead create a group.
- For the group name, you can call it *Admin*, since it's pretty common to call a group like that.
- Looking down we'll see a bunch of Policies.

> **Aside -- Information about Policiies:**
> - The first policy, which is *AdministratorAccess*, as you can see in the > > *Description* label, it basically gives you nearly almost the same capabilities as the > AWS root user account. You can go ahead check that box.
> - If we hit on the dropdown menu called *Filter by Type*, and go to *AWS managed - job function*.
> + They're basically pre-made AWS Policies that you could apply to different users. 
> + What's really popular after the *AdministratorAccess* is the *PowerUserAccess*
> - *PowerUserAccess* allows a user to basically do anything they want with the exception of management of users and groups.
> + Checking that box or not is up to you.

**Continuing Step 2:**

- Go ahead hit *Create User Group*


**Step 3:**

- You can create tags if you want, otherwise you won't have to.
- Just do *Create User*.

**Step 4:**

- In this step, you basically have received your *Console sign-in details* so go ahead 
- One thing about this is that it won't automatically create a something called *Access key* for you. So just close the window and follow the steps below if you want to create your *Access key*.

> **Aside - How to create your own Access Key:**
> - If you've been following the steps above and have closed the window, you'll see right away a spot telling you to *Create access key* in the *Summary* box.
> - If not, you can navigate as follow
> `Access management > Users > Choose your username > Look for Summary panel > Create access key`

 
## Heading over to IAM Dashboard

- On the right side, inside the *AWS Account* panel, we can see our *Account ID*, we can also save that ID somewhere as well.
- Now once you've *Created a User* following the steps above, log out of your account and sign-in as an **IAM User** using what you've just created. 
+ This is the recommended way of doing, signing in as an **IAM User** and not a **Root user**.
- Once signed out and currently signing back in, it's prompting you to create a new password. Therefore, go ahead and create a new one.
+ Note: When creating a new password, using a Password Generator is recommended!
- You'll then be logged in again but also sign out again to make sure your new password works. 
- Once you finished all those steps above, you should see that on the top right corner, now you'll know that if it's showing `[Your IAM User] @ [Account Alias] `, that means you're logged in with your IAM User Account, and not your Root Account. 
+ It's your *AWS Account Display Info* if you're wondering.
- You'll also see that on the top right corner, next to your *AWS Account Display Info*, there's a dropdown menu showing a bunch of regions. 
- For whatever regions you have, the default regions will be based on your locality. 
- It's strongly recommend that we should run in *us-east-1* because it's the original region, and it also has the most access to AWS Services.
+ Some AWS Services, such as billings, costs and things like that, are only going to show up in *us-east-1*. 
+ For example: If you try to search services like *CloudFront*, *S3*, you'll see that they don't require region selection. However, if you do search up services like *EC2*, it does have region dependencies. 
+ **Main point here is just to be careful with regions and stuffs like that, it could automatically switch up on you.**



## Overbilling Story

One of the major advantages of using AWS or any CSP, is that it utilizes metered billing, that is different from a fixed cost. 

AWS will charge you based on how many hours, second, or other bunch of factors and so you're going to be able to get services at a **lower cost**. 

However, if you choose an expensive service and you forget about it, or if there's a misconfiguration where you thought you were launching something that was cost-effective, but turned out to be expensive, you could end up with a large bill, very very quickly and that's a major concern for a lot of people. But don't worry, there are tools that will allow you to catch yourself if you happen to make that mistake. 

### What to do when you set up a service and you suddenly gets a massive bill.

When you're setting up a service in the settings section for that service, AWS usually have default values. Those default values usually are beneficial for you but could also be bad. Therefore you always have to checking the settings carefully. 

Now say if you did not check and you end up getting a massive bill charged to your account, what you can do is navigate to the *Support Center* and go ahead and *Create a new support case*. 
+ AWS lets you have a free pass for the first time that you accidentally have a miss-spending, so it's okay. 



## AWS Budgets

Since we already have a story on overbilling, we'll go over steps to protect yourself from it. 

Basically go to the search bar and type *Budgets*, it will then forward you to *Billing and Cost Management*.
+ Another way is by clicking on your username and just hit *Billing and Cost Management*. Then navigate to your sidebar, search *Budgets and Planning*, you'll also see *Budgets* there.

Now you're there, you can basically *Create a Budget* based on what you want, for me I just do a Zero-Spend Budget. 



## AWS Free Tier

The free tier is something that is available for the first 12 months of a new AWS Account and allows you to utilize AWS Services without incurring any cost to you. 

Therefore, if you want to utilize your free tier for the purpose of learning cloud, starting in cloud then you can go ahead and search *AWS Free Tier* in Google or just click on the link below:

https://aws.amazon.com/free/?trk=fd8bc224-ba0b-4ee9-8595-152729dbd279&sc_channel=ps&ef_id=Cj0KCQjwxdXBBhDEARIsAAUkP6hOq2DDgsTZh_rsK5VNL8nDd8pa5AbMloIQQJPxpXXZbyOqSST_rfUaAt01EALw_wcB:G:s&s_kwcid=AL!4422!3!733981719008!p!!g!!aws%20pricing!22258831344!180520037452&gad_campaignid=22258831344&gbraid=0AAAAADjHtp8deRUgNXdziepcbrV2M7o7K&gclid=Cj0KCQjwxdXBBhDEARIsAAUkP6hOq2DDgsTZh_rsK5VNL8nDd8pa5AbMloIQQJPxpXXZbyOqSST_rfUaAt01EALw_wcB&all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Types=*all&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Categories=*all

And you'll get a page that explains all sorts of services.

If you search *Billing preferences* and go to it, you'll be able to enable **AWS Free Tier Alerts** and **CloudWatch billing Alert** under the panel **Alert preferences**.

This page will explain most of the things for you, be sure to check it out:
**
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/tracking-free-tier-usage.html?icmpid=docs_billing_hp-freetier



## Billing Alarm

Another way that we can monitor our spend, it is through *Billing Alert* or *Billing Alarm*. 

> **Aside - To make sure everything works:**
> Make sure you have enabled **CloudWatch billing Alert** mentioned under **AWS Free Tier** section, and that's it.

You can now search up *CloudWatch*. Once your there, go to your sidebar and expand *Alarms*, you can then go ahead and click *Billing* then hit *Create alarm*. 
+ You should be careful that AWS does charge you for setting up these kinds of alarms, so it's good to be aware of it.

For me personally I don't need to create a Billing Alarm, so I'll just leave the process up to you to search if you want to create one. 

But yeah I'm giving some information on it here just to let you know tools like that exist, and are helpful.



## Turning on MFA

One of the strongest recommendation that AWS gives you is to set MFA on your AWS root user account.

Now make sure you're logged into your AWS root user account.

Make your way to IAM and just go ahead make an MFA for your root user.